# A-Comparative-Study-of-ML-Models-on-Alcohol-Consumption-Pattern
We aim to explore and analyze various classification and regression modeling techniques to understand factors related to alcohol consumption patterns among youth, assessing the effectiveness of these methods in capturing addiction behaviors.
The study is all about exploring the Alcohol consumption classifying factors which helps to understand the important variables which drive alcohol abuse by utilizing different kinds of machine learning models on the data of NSDUH 2020. In this study, the model building has been divided into three different levels. At the first level, Binary classification has been concluded to observe the usage of alcohol and non-usage of alcohol. In this binary classification we have Gradient Boosting Classifier model which has provided an accuracy of 77.77% and some important variables under models are Education Level, Friend’s Feedback on Alcohol use, Religion Influence, Youth Selling Drugs, Parents helped to do HW last year. The study moves forward to the second level, with multi class classification which mainly concentrates on the frequency of the usage of alcohol in a year which expands to multiclass classification to categorize consumption levels in greater detail. In this classification we have the best model as Gradient Boosting model with a score of 79.23% with some important factors like Education Level, Friend’s Feedback, Parents Limit TV watching, Peer Drinking and Parent talks to Alcohol use on daily basis. At the final stage, we have Regression models. The findings contribute valuable insights into the classification landscape, particularly in understanding and finding out some of the best variables which affect alcohol use. In this exercise we have the best model as Bagging with Random Forest ensemble method with a minimum test MSE of 1.764 with some of the important variables as Youth Selling Drugs, Parent talks to Alcohol use on daily basis, youth having Individual Mother, Teacher Feedback and Health Condition. We can observe some common important factors in all the three models, like Education Level, Youth Selling Drugs, Parent talks to Alcohol use on daily basis and Friend’s Feedback along with important factors like on Alcohol use, Religion Influence, Parents help to do HW last year, Parents Limit TV watching, Peer Drinking feeling, youth having Individual Mother, Teacher Feedback and Health Condition.
